Source: The Daily Californian (Food Blog) — "Power Ranking Every Coffee Shop I've Tried to Study At"
URL: https://www.dailycal.org/blogs/power-ranking-every-coffee-shop-ive-tried-to-study-at/article_a52694d2-bedc-11ee-bac6-ebe56c64bdec.html
Type: Student newspaper blog / opinion ranking
Domain: UC Berkeley campus dining (cafes & study spots)

---

Power Ranking Every Coffee Shop I've Tried to Study At

I'll be the first to say it: I love studying in coffee shops. To me, getting work done and a good cup of coffee are synonymous, and my first semester was spent exploring the abundant coffee shops Berkeley has to offer. However, a good cup of coffee doesn't necessarily mean it's a good spot to study at. Here's a power ranking of every coffee shop I've tried based on their study environment:

Gold Bean Cafe
Located a block down from the RSF on Durant Avenue, Gold Bean Cafe offers such amazing specialty coffee drinks such as the dulce de leche latte or Vietnamese iced coffee. It also offers smoothies, teas and boba if coffee isn't your drink of choice! And while I love its drink options, I didn't have the best experience working here, mostly because seating is pretty limited and cramped. If you're planning to study here, I recommend staking out a spot closer to opening time!

Blue Bottle
Berkeley's Blue Bottle Coffee is located Downtown about two blocks away from the Crescent Lawn. The coffee here is my favorite, especially the iced New Orleans latte — I definitely recommend stopping by for an afternoon pick me up if you're ever in the area. And while I love the ambiance, I'd say the layout is much more suited for catching up with friends as there are very few outlets or seating options. There are two big open tables and window seating with barstools — I personally prefer seating with a backing and a more cozy study environment.

Strada
One of the more iconic Berkeley coffee shops, Strada is my go-to place to study with friends or have meetings. The outdoor seating options are especially great for the days you need some fresh air after being crammed in lecture halls all day. My favorite drinks from Strada are the iced mint matcha latte with oat milk and the iced vanilla latte. A huge plus is that they also stay open until 12 a.m., so you have time to grind out that paper or submit that assignment by 11:59 p.m.!

Souvenir Coffee
One of my most frequented coffee spots, Souvenir Coffee is a great place to study and get work done. It's located a few blocks down from the Units, but it's also right across from a bus stop, making for convenient access. And while I love the coffee and tea options, the bagel sandwiches are my personal favorite, especially the fully loaded bagel. I love its tall ceilings and varied seating options, but the layout of the space can get a bit cramped and distracting, especially if you arrive at peak hours.

Cafenated Coffee Co.
Finally, my favorite coffee shop to study at is Cafenated Coffee Co., located six blocks down from the Units on College Avenue. What I love most about Cafenated is definitely the ambiance as it is usually relatively peaceful and clean, making it perfect for intense study or work sessions. It also offers a variety of seating options: standing tables, large round tables, coffee tables with lowered seating and single seated tables. The drinks are also incredibly delicious, my favorite being the iced matcha with strawberry puree. All in all, a perfect place to get work done!

And there you have it! All of the coffee shops I've tried to study at during my first semester at Berkeley. With the multitude of coffee options in and surrounding Berkeley, you're sure to find a spot that satisfies your caffeine craving and your desire for an ambient environment.
