Source: The Daily Californian (Food Blog) — "Swipe into These On-Campus Dining Locations"
URL: https://www.dailycal.org/blogs/food-blog/swipe-into-these-on-campus-dining-locations/article_ebd0243b-6819-4d53-bdc1-4d00ca9daeb5.html
Type: Student newspaper blog / opinion guide
Domain: UC Berkeley campus dining (on-campus cafes & eateries)

---

Swipe into These On-Campus Dining Locations

I love my parents, but there were a lot of things they fretted over when I first left for college. One was the fear that I was going to starve to death, which I'll admit is a bit warranted since I can't cook for my life. The good news, though, is that meal plans are already conveniently included in housing contracts for residential halls or any other on-campus housing. Students also have the option to spend more to upgrade their plan, like what I did last fall. The "Ultimate Plan" granted me unlimited meal swipes and hundreds of flex dollars, which put my parents a bit more at ease. Newer students may come in thinking there aren't a lot of places you can swipe into, but you actually have quite a lot of options for your meals, both in terms of location and food.

Dining Halls (Café 3, Clark Kerr, Crossroads, Foothill)
Nestled close to the residential halls are the several dining halls students flock to, Cal ID Card in hand. Each dining hall has its unique ambience and layout. For instance, Clark Kerr has a Hogwarts-esque vibe with a similarly magical menu. Crossroads is more modern with many stations offering a variety of cuisines, while Café 3 and Foothill emit a more homey and casual feel. The dining halls also change up their menus for every meal, which is perfect for those who get bored of the same foods everyday. My favorites so far have been orange chicken, mac and cheese, pulled pork sandwiches, fettuccine alfredo pasta and tri-tip — and that doesn't include desserts like red velvet cake and chocolate chip cookies. While you do have to wait for your favorites to pop up again, even the pickiest eaters will eventually be satisfied.

Golden Bear Café
Right at the heart of Sproul Plaza is the Golden Bear Café, a classic place to grab lunch or a coffee in between classes. It also offers grab-and-go options and snacks for purchase with flex dollars. Ordering is easy, and the wait is consistently short. My favorites from the lunch menu are the Philly Cheesesteak, Chicken Tenders and Bulgogi Fries. The Peet's Coffee inside is also my go-to for iced lattes, which is basically where all my flex dollars ended up.

Brown's
The Northwest corner of campus boasts Brown's, which is an undeniable campus favorite for many. Inspired by healthy California cuisine, the cafe cooks up sustainable and organic meals. Students fawn over their salmon filet, garlic fries and tri tip, along with flavorful sauce options like chimichurri and ancho orange.

The Eateries at the MLK Student Union
As someone who spends all her time studying in the MLK Student Union, many of my meals come straight from the eateries conveniently located on the first floor. If you're craving Indian food, Monsoon Kitchens serves up savory katora bowls that come with your choice of chicken tikka masala or palak paneer along with samosas and naan. Right next door, Ladle & Leaf's assorted menu offers fresh and delicious salads, soups and sandwiches. My usual order is a turkey pesto sandwich or chicken chipotle salad, paired with a filling bowl of turkey chili or New England clam chowder.

Local x Design
Housed in an area that used to lack accessible food options is UC Berkeley's latest dining location, Local x Design. While it only accepts flex dollars for now, it's still worth the visit. Dig into the famous Boichik Bagel sandwich for breakfast or a colorful salad, protein bowl or sandwich for lunch.

The next time you feel your stomach rumbling, take a stab at some of the dining locations on campus. Not only is eating with a meal plan pretty convenient, but it's also a delicious experience without the hassle of cooking. So, swipe in, sit down and enjoy!
